TeXample.net contributions
==========================

This repository contains my contributions to TeXample.net.  You can view
them directly on
http://www.texample.net/tikz/examples/author/david-fokkema/.


Fluor energy levels
-------------------

In particle physics, the most important experimental problem is that of
detecting particles.  A cheap and highly efficient solution is using
*scintillators*.  These kinds of detectors emit light when a charged
particle traverses the detector.  The light-emitting process is depicted
in this figure.  The layout was inspired by [this wikipedia
graphic](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Pistates.svg).  The TikZ code
in my version is a bit complex, mainly due to manual layout tweaks,
shifting some positions here and there.  The figure shown here is a minor
revision of the one included in [my PhD
thesis](http://dx.doi.org/10.3990/1.9789036534383).


Data Flow Diagram (DFD)
-----------------------

Data flow diagrams depict the flow of information in a system.  This
figure shows experimental data being recorded, processed and ultimately
stored. This figure is a minor revision of the one included in [my PhD
thesis](http://dx.doi.org/10.3990/1.9789036534383).


Map of a HiSPARC detector inside the KASCADE experiment
-------------------------------------------------------

The KASCADE experiment is a 200 Ã— 200 m array detecting cosmic rays.  It
consists of 252 detector stations spaced 13 m apart and has taken data
from 1996 to 2009.  It continued to host a few guest experiments,
including LOPES, TAUWER and HiSPARC, until early 2013.  This map shows the
layout of KASCADE and the location of the HiSPARC station.  This figure is
a minor revision of the one included in [my PhD
thesis](http://dx.doi.org/10.3990/1.9789036534383).


Rainbow formation
-----------------

Rainbows form because light of different colors refracts differently in a
drop of water.  To understand a rainbow in detail, you need to consider
all possible rays entering the drop, many raindrops at once, and the
reflectivity for various angles at the back of the drop.  The current
figure shows only one ray entering the raindrop and visualizes the path of
the red and blue rays.  The index of refraction of the red ray is slightly
exaggerated (less than one percent) for clarity.  Observe that the angle
of incidence is identical to the angle with which the rays finally exit
the drop.  Furthermore, the *red* internal angles are all identical,
similar for the *blue* angles.

This figure was drawn for high school students because a physics textbook
figure contained several errors and ultimately claimed the red and blue
light exiting the raindrop as parallel rays.
