Fluor energy levels
===================

In particle physics, the most important experimental problem is that of
detecting particles.  A cheap and highly efficient solution is using
*scintillators*.  These kinds of detectors emit light when a charged
particle traverses the detector.  The light-emitting process is depicted
in this figure.  The layout was inspired by [this wikipedia
graphic](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Pistates.svg).  The TikZ code
in my version is a bit complex, mainly due to manual layout tweaks,
shifting some positions here and there.  The figure shown here is a minor
revision of the one included in [my PhD
thesis](http://dx.doi.org/10.3990/1.9789036534383).


Data Flow Diagram (DFD)
=======================

Data flow diagrams depict the flow of information in a system.  This
figure shows experimental data being recorded, processed and ultimately
stored. This figure is a minor revision of the one included in [my PhD
thesis](http://dx.doi.org/10.3990/1.9789036534383).


Map of a HiSPARC detector inside the KASCADE experiment
=======================================================

The KASCADE experiment is a 200 Ã— 200 m array detecting cosmic rays.  It
consists of 252 detector stations spaced 13 m apart and has taken data
from 1996 to 2009.  It continued to host a few guest experiments,
including LOPES, TAUWER and HiSPARC, until early 2013.  This map shows the
layout of KASCADE and the location of the HiSPARC station.  This figure is
a minor revision of the one included in [my PhD
thesis](http://dx.doi.org/10.3990/1.9789036534383).
